Antimony is a chemical element with the symbol Sb (from Latin: stibium) 
and atomic number 51. A lustrous gray metalloid, it is found in nature 
mainly as the sulfide mineral stibnite (Sb2S3). Antimony compounds have 
been known since ancient times and were powdered for use as medicine and 
cosmetics, often known by the Arabic name kohl. The earliest known 
description of the metal in the West was written in 1540 by Vannoccio 
Biringuccio.

China is the largest producer of antimony and its compounds, with most 
production coming from the Xikuangshan Mine in Hunan. The industrial 
methods for refining antimony from stibnite are roasting followed by 
reduction with carbon, or direct reduction of stibnite with iron.

The largest applications for metallic antimony are in alloys with lead 
and tin, which have improved properties for solders, bullets, and plain 
bearings. It improves the rigidity of lead-alloy plates in lead–acid 
batteries. Antimony trioxide is a prominent additive for halogen-containing 
flame retardants. Antimony is used as a dopant in semiconductor devices.
Antimony is a member of group 15 of the periodic table, one of the elements 
called pnictogens, and has an electronegativity of 2.05. In accordance with 
periodic trends, it is more electronegative than tin or bismuth, and less 
electronegative than tellurium or arsenic. Antimony is stable in air at 
room temperature, but reacts with oxygen if heated to produce antimony 
trioxide, Sb2O3. 

Antimony is a silvery, lustrous gray metalloid with a Mohs scale hardness 
of 3, which is too soft to make hard objects. Coins of antimony were issued 
in China's Guizhou province in 1931; durability was poor, and minting was 
soon discontinued. Antimony is resistant to attack by acids.