Caesium (IUPAC spelling) (also spelled cesium in American English) is a 
chemical element with the symbol Cs and atomic number 55. It is a soft, 
silvery-golden alkali metal with a melting point of 28.5 °C (83.3 °F), 
which makes it one of only five elemental metals that are liquid at or 
near room temperature. Caesium has physical and chemical properties 
similar to those of rubidium and potassium. The most reactive of all 
metals, it is pyrophoric and reacts with water even at −116 °C (−177 °F). 
It is the least electronegative element, with a value of 0.79 on the 
Pauling scale. It has only one stable isotope, caesium-133. Caesium is 
mined mostly from pollucite, while the radioisotopes, especially 
caesium-137, a fission product, are extracted from waste produced by 
nuclear reactors.

The German chemist Robert Bunsen and physicist Gustav Kirchhoff discovered 
caesium in 1860 by the newly developed method of flame spectroscopy. The 
first small-scale applications for caesium were as a "getter" in vacuum 
tubes and in photoelectric cells. In 1967, acting on Einstein's proof that 
the speed of light is the most constant dimension in the universe, the 
International System of Units used two specific wave counts from an 
emission spectrum of caesium-133 to co-define the second and the metre. 
Since then, caesium has been widely used in highly accurate atomic clocks.

Since the 1990s, the largest application of the element has been as 
caesium formate for drilling fluids, but it has a range of applications 
in the production of electricity, in electronics, and in chemistry. The 
radioactive isotope caesium-137 has a half-life of about 30 years and is 
used in medical applications, industrial gauges, and hydrology. 