Curium is a transuranic, radioactive chemical element with the symbol 
Cm and atomic number 96. This element of the actinide series was named 
after eminent scientists Marie and Pierre Curie, both known for their 
research on radioactivity. Curium was first intentionally made by the 
team of Glenn Seaborg, Ralph A. James, and Albert Ghiorso in 1944, 
using the cyclotron at Berkeley. They bombarded a piece of the newly 
discovered element plutonium (isotope 239) with alpha-particles. This 
was then sent to the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of 
Chicago where a tiny sample of curium was eventually separated and 
identified. The discovery was kept secret until after the end of the 
World War 2. The news was released to the public in November 1947. 
Most curium is produced by bombarding uranium or plutonium with 
neutrons in nuclear reactors â€“ one tonne of spent nuclear fuel 
contains about 20 grams of curium.

Curium is a hard, dense, silvery metal with a relatively high melting 
point and boiling point for an actinide. Whereas it is paramagnetic at
 ambient conditions, it becomes antiferromagnetic upon cooling, and 
other magnetic transitions are also observed for many curium compounds.
 In compounds, curium usually exhibits valence +3 and sometimes +4, 
and the +3 valence is predominant in solutions. Curium readily oxidizes, 
and its oxides are a dominant form of this element. It forms strongly 
fluorescent complexes with various organic compounds, but there is no 
evidence of its incorporation into bacteria and archaea. When 
introduced into the human body, curium accumulates in the bones, lungs 
and liver, where it promotes cancer.