Francium is a chemical element with the symbol Fr and atomic number 
87. It is extremely radioactive; its most stable isotope, francium-
223 (originally called actinium K after the natural decay chain it 
appears in), has a half-life of only 22 minutes. It is the second-
most electropositive element, behind only caesium, and is the second 
rarest naturally occurring element (after astatine). The isotopes of 
francium decay quickly into astatine, radium, and radon. The 
electronic structure of a francium atom is [Rn] 7s1, and so the 
element is classed as an alkali metal.

Bulk francium has never been seen. Because of the general appearance 
of the other elements in its periodic table column, it is presumed 
that francium would appear as a highly reactive metal, if enough 
could be collected together to be viewed as a bulk solid or liquid. 
Obtaining such a sample is highly improbable, since the extreme heat 
of decay resulting from its short half-life would immediately 
vaporize any viewable quantity of the element.

Francium was discovered by Marguerite Perey in France (from which the 
element takes its name) in 1939. Prior to its discovery, it was 
referred to as eka-caesium or ekacaesium because of its conjectured 
existence below caesium in the periodic table. It was the last element 
first discovered in nature, rather than by synthesis. Outside the 
laboratory, francium is extremely rare, with trace amounts found in 
uranium and thorium ores, where the isotope francium-223 continually 
forms and decays.