Hafnium is a chemical element with the symbol Hf and atomic number 72. 
A lustrous, silvery gray, tetravalent transition metal, hafnium chemically 
resembles zirconium and is found in many zirconium minerals. Its existence 
was predicted by Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869, though it was not identified 
until 1923, by Dirk Coster and George de Hevesy, making it the second-last 
stable element to be discovered (the last being rhenium). Hafnium is named 
after Hafnia, the Latin name for Copenhagen, where it was discovered.

Hafnium is used in filaments and electrodes. Some semiconductor fabrication 
processes use its oxide for integrated circuits at 45 nm and smaller feature 
lengths. Some superalloys used for special applications contain hafnium in 
combination with niobium, titanium, or tungsten.

Hafnium's large neutron capture cross section makes it a good material for 
neutron absorption in control rods in nuclear power plants, but at the same 
time requires that it be removed from the neutron-transparent corrosion-
resistant zirconium alloys used in nuclear reactors
Hafnium is a shiny, silvery, ductile metal that is corrosion-resistant and 
chemically similar to zirconium (due to its having the same number of valence 
electrons, being in the same group, but also to relativistic effects; the 
expected expansion of atomic radii from period 5 to 6 is almost exactly 
cancelled out by the lanthanide contraction). Hafnium changes from its alpha
form, a hexagonal close-packed lattice, to its beta form, a body-centered 
cubic lattice, at 2388 K. The physical properties of hafnium metal samples 
are markedly affected by zirconium impurities, especially the nuclear 
properties, as these two elements are among the most difficult to separate 
because of their chemical similarity.A notable physical difference between 
these metals is their density, with zirconium having about one-half the 
density of hafnium.