Indium is a chemical element with the symbol In and atomic number 49. 
Indium is the softest metal that is not an alkali metal. It is a 
silvery-white metal that resembles tin in appearance. It is a post-
transition metal that makes up 0.21 parts per million of the Earth's 
crust. Indium has a melting point higher than sodium and gallium, but 
lower than lithium and tin. Chemically, indium is similar to gallium 
and thallium, and it is largely intermediate between the two in terms 
of its properties. Indium was discovered in 1863 by Ferdinand Reich 
and Hieronymous Theodor Richter by spectroscopic methods. They named 
it for the indigo blue line in its spectrum. Indium was isolated the 
next year.

Indium is a minor component in zinc sulfide ores and is produced as 
a byproduct of zinc refinement. It is most notably used in the 
semiconductor industry, in low-melting-point metal alloys such as 
solders, in soft-metal high-vacuum seals, and in the production of 
transparent conductive coatings of indium tin oxide (ITO) on glass. 
Indium is considered a technology-critical element.

Indium has no biological role. Its compounds are toxic when injected 
into the bloodstream. Most occupational exposure is through ingestion, 
from which indium compounds are not absorbed well, and inhalation, 
from which they are moderately absorbed.
Indium is a silvery-white, highly ductile post-transition metal with 
a bright luster. It is so soft (Mohs hardness 1.2) that like sodium, 
it can be cut with a knife. It also leaves a visible line on paper. 
It is a member of group 13 on the periodic table and its properties 
are mostly intermediate between its vertical neighbours gallium and 
thallium. Like tin, a high-pitched cry is heard when indium is bent 
 a crackling sound due to crystal twinning.