Tantalum is a chemical element with the symbol Ta and atomic number 73. 
Previously known as tantalium, it is named after Tantalus, a villain 
from Greek mythology. Tantalum is a rare, hard, blue-gray, lustrous 
transition metal that is highly corrosion-resistant. It is part of the 
refractory metals group, which are widely used as minor components in
 alloys.

The chemical inertness of tantalum makes it a valuable substance for 
laboratory equipment, and as a substitute for platinum. Its main use 
today is in tantalum capacitors in electronic equipment such as mobile 
phones, DVD players, video game systems and computers. Tantalum, always 
together with the chemically similar niobium, occurs in the mineral 
groups tantalite, columbite and coltan (the latter is a mix of columbite 
and tantalite, though not recognised as a separate mineral species). 
Tantalum is considered a technology-critical element by the European 
Commission.
Tantalum was discovered in Sweden in 1802 by Anders Ekeberg, in two
 mineral samples – one from Sweden and the other from Finland. One year 
earlier, Charles Hatchett had discovered columbium (now niobium), and in 
1809 the English chemist William Hyde Wollaston compared its oxide, 
columbite with a density of 5.918 g/cm3, to that of tantalum, tantalite
 with a density of 7.935 g/cm3. He concluded that the two oxides, 
despite their difference in measured density, were identical and kept 
the name tantalum. After Friedrich Wöhler confirmed these results, it 
was thought that columbium and tantalum were the same element. This 
conclusion was disputed in 1846 by the German chemist Heinrich Rose,
 who argued that there were two additional elements in the tantalite 
sample, and he named them after the children of Tantalus: niobium (from 
Niobe, the goddess of tears), and pelopium (from Pelops).