Uranium is a chemical element with the symbol U and atomic number 92. 
It is a silvery-grey metal in the actinide series of the periodic table.
 A uranium atom has 92 protons and 92 electrons, of which 6 are valence 
electrons. Uranium is weakly radioactive because all isotopes of uranium 
are unstable; the half-lives of its naturally occurring isotopes range 
between 159,200 years and 4.5 billion years. The most common isotopes in 
natural uranium are uranium-238 (which has 146 neutrons and accounts for 
over 99% of uranium on Earth) and uranium-235 (which has 143 neutrons). 
Uranium has the highest atomic weight of the primordially occurring 
elements. Its density is about 70% higher than that of lead, and slightly 
lower than that of gold or tungsten. It occurs naturally in low 
concentrations of a few parts per million in soil, rock and water, and is 
commercially extracted from uranium-bearing minerals such as uraninite.

In nature, uranium is found as uranium-238 (99.2739–99.2752%), uranium-235 
(0.7198–0.7202%), and a very small amount of uranium-234 (0.0050–0.0059%). 
Uranium decays slowly by emitting an alpha particle. The half-life of 
uranium-238 is about 4.47 billion years and that of uranium-235 is 704
 million years, making them useful in dating the age of the Earth.

Many contemporary uses of uranium exploit its unique nuclear properties. 
Uranium-235 is the only naturally occurring fissile isotope, which makes 
it widely used in nuclear power plants and nuclear weapons. However, 
because of the tiny amounts found in nature, uranium needs to undergo 
enrichment so that enough uranium-235 is present. Uranium-238 is 
fissionable by fast neutrons, and is fertile, meaning it can be transmuted 
to fissile plutonium-239 in a nuclear reactor. Another fissile isotope, 
uranium-233, can be produced from natural thorium and is studied for future 
industrial use in nuclear technology.