Ytterbium is a chemical element with the symbol Yb and atomic number 70. 
It is the fourteenth and penultimate element in the lanthanide series, 
which is the basis of the relative stability of its +2 oxidation state. 
However, like the other lanthanides, its most common oxidation state is 
+3, as in its oxide, halides, and other compounds. In aqueous solution, 
like compounds of other late lanthanides, soluble ytterbium compounds 
form complexes with nine water molecules. Because of its closed-shell 
electron configuration, its density and melting and boiling points differ 
significantly from those of most other lanthanides.

In 1878, the Swiss chemist Jean Charles Galissard de Marignac separated 
from the rare earth "erbia" another independent component, which he 
called "ytterbia", for Ytterby, the village in Sweden near where he found 
the new component of erbium. He suspected that ytterbia was a compound of 
a new element that he called "ytterbium" (in total, four elements were 
named after the village, the others being yttrium, terbium, and erbium). 
In 1907, the new earth "lutecia" was separated from ytterbia, from which 
the element "lutecium" (now lutetium) was extracted by Georges Urbain, 
Carl Auer von Welsbach, and Charles James. After some discussion, 
Marignac's name "ytterbium" was retained. A relatively pure sample of the 
metal was not obtained until 1953. At present, ytterbium is mainly used 
as a dopant of stainless steel or active laser media, and less often as 
a gamma ray source.

Natural ytterbium is a mixture of seven stable isotopes, which altogether 
are present at concentrations of 0.3 parts per million. This element is 
mined in China, the United States, Brazil, and India in form of the 
minerals monazite, euxenite, and xenotime. 